And okay, things were changing all the time.
It was quite busy where we were up
because where the Forest College house is now
and things like that,
that was the hub of what Quinceana Forest was doing.
It was all the machinery, they had lorries,
they had vans and things like that.
They had a little field where the house next door
is built on now.
At the very top of that,
you can see like an old garage shed there at the top.
That used to be the garage for the Forest Commission's lorry
that they used to carry people
and the materials around all over the place.
And then down below that, there was a petrol pump.
There was various sheds and things like that
where they kept all the materials and things.
And eventually they built,
in addition to the office that was next to the house,
they built an office in the field
where the Chalet house is now.
There's a decent sized office there
and there was a secretary, I think,
who worked in there as well.
And that's where it was run from.
And below the house,
further down the road towards the Wayland Cottages
and things like that, there was a field down there.
You don't notice it now because it's all wood.
But there was a field there, which was the nursery.
And there was some sheds down there
and they had at one stage, initially they didn't
because they bought seedlings in,
but they actually, after a while,
they grew seed beds there.
They were like big raised beds,
great big long raised beds as long as a cricket pitch.
And they grew the trees
that they were gonna plant from seed there.
So they grew them in the seed bed
and then the rest of the field all the way down
was rotivated and made into sections.
And they planted out each of the seedlings
into the nursery area before,
and they'd been living there for a couple of years
to get big enough to be able to be planted on the hills.
But the interesting thing was they got,
it was real, I suppose, post-war
where a lot of people had come out of the army,
a lot of military guys
who got very good procedures for doing things.
There was a procedure for doing everything,
but it was in the grocery commission.
They got these designs of A-frames,
and little frames with a bar across the top
and an A-frame coming down.
And what they'd do is they'd collect the seeds
from where they grew the seeds in the beds.
And then they'd split them out
and they had a special frame
with a V-shape cut in it like that.
And they'd drop a little seedling in each one of those Vs.
And there was a clamp mechanism that clamped that shut
and they could hold a whole row of plants up in Longo.
And they'd get away of actually cutting,
again, everything was measured carefully.
So all the plants were exactly the same distance apart.
And then there was a mechanism on the board as well
that when they put it down onto the soil,
that it was the right distance away from the plant,
the other side.
And very quickly, they could just push all the soil together
on that, lift the frame out,
and you'd got a big row,
a full row of seedlings planted
without hardly damaging or touching.
Then immediately they'd put it back on,
they'd do the same thing
and they'd work their way down the field
and fill the whole field up with plants
leaving there for a couple of years
to be ready to be put out.
And the thing I think that you can lose sight of sometimes
is that when you look in the forest,
all the way over those hills,
you don't realize that every one of those trees
was planted by a man with a mattock,
dug a hole, pulled a chunk of soil forward or clod forward,
put the plant into it,
clod it his way through under the next one.
And when you look through it,
it's hard to believe the amount of effort that they took.
Okay, and some of the hill tops up behind the whennest hill
up behind you there,
it was wet on the top there.
And what they did there was they'd actually use a big plow
on a caterpillar and they'd make a long turf
when they throw the soil over
and they plant the trees on that.
That was quite interesting.
And we used to go out from,
when for example, when they were plowing on the top,
we used to have a ride on the caterpillar with,
I think it was Reg Hope from his to live in St. Harman,
he used to drive it.
I know that was a beast in itself.
The caterpillar was, I think some had been regenerated
from some ex-army engine or something like that.
It was called a Fowler.
And to start it, there was no batteries or anything like that.
It had a little donkey engine,
that you'd put a cartridge in and you locked it up
and then you struck the cartridge
and then you shot a charge into it.
That threw the engine over
and hopefully would start the engine.
It was a remarkable machine.
I don't know if there are any of those around now,
but we used to mess around with those.
And when we were young, for example,
when they, before they planted the trees
in front on the bottom of the slope coming down there,
they removed a lot of the oak trees that were there.
And the forest commission guys were split the logs,
they cut them into logs,
split the logs into with big wedges and sledgehammers
to make the posts that they'd need to go all the way
around the perimeter of all the fences
that the forest commission was putting up around the land
that they'd either acquired by compulsory purchase
or normal purchase.
But yeah, it was some, you know,
quite often we'd be out there.
At the time as well,
the forest commission were building roads everywhere.
All those roads they put in that you see around,
most of the original ones are those,
not the ones that the extractors,
the people taking timber out were doing.
They just ripped through the soil and made a right mess.
But they put those roads in
before they put a lot of the trees in.
So they were prepared, everything was prepared.
They needed to have the road infrastructure in there.
They needed to have,
I assume they had to make sure they got the plans.
And so there were teams of people kind of building the roads
going with graders and caterpillars and things.
And they've quite a lot of work there.
And they'd be blasting through the rocks
as they were going in front of our house.
And they'd be blowing the whistle
to tell people to be aware they were just about to blast.
And there were occasions when stones were falling
in the fields just across the road from us,
from the top of the hill down.
It was quite an operation.
As well as that, there was a lot of work for people
during that time.
It seems, I don't know where they came from, all of them.
They weren't all immediately from the Abbey.
They were from where they had a planter door
and places like that and places around.
But in addition to planting the trees,
obviously you had to prepare the land.
They were planted in, I think,
what do they call them, compartments.
I think the trees were planted in a ridge
and they'd leave a ride or a fire break between them.
And the fire break, somebody would have to plow
the fire break or make that such that it wasn't good
for a fire to leap across and things.
So there was a lot of work going on.
And then they had to weed the trees.
When they planted them, when they were very small,
there were teams of people who'd be going around
spending weeks and weeks and weeks
kind of weeding sections and things like that
on the trees that were young.
And once they got up a certain height as well,
there'd be teams going out to brush them
where you'd cut the lower branches off
before you get to the point when it started,
when they started getting bigger,
before they get to the stage where they were,
I suppose, 15, 20 years old,
where they were starting to take the first thinning.
So there was a lot of effort there.
There must have been 40 plus people
working for the forestry at that time.